The Internet of Things (IoT) has the overarching goal of connecting a wide array of objects, including smart cameras, wearable devices, environmental sensors, home appliances, and vehicles, to the internet. This connectivity generates a massive volume of data that can strain storage systems and data analytics applications. While cloud computing offers scalable infrastructure services to accommodate IoT storage and processing demands, there are applications like health monitoring and emergency response that require low latency. The delay introduced by transferring data to the cloud and back can significantly hinder the performance of such applications.To address this limitation, the concept of Fog computing has been introduced. In the Fog computing paradigm, cloud services are extended to the edge of the network, reducing latency and network congestion. This approach aims to realize the full potential of both Fog and IoT paradigms for real-time analytics. However, to make this a reality, several challenges must be addressed.

The most critical challenge is the design of resource management techniques. These techniques determine which modules of analytics applications should be pushed to each edge device to minimize latency and maximize throughput. To tackle this challenge effectively, we proposed the JAYA algorithm which is specialized for optimizing the placement of application modules. It is essential to have an evaluation platform that allows for the quantification of the performance of resource management policies on an IoT or Fog computing infrastructure in a repeatable and systematic manner. In this project we used a simulator, called iFogSim, to model IoT and Fog environments and measure the impact of resource management techniques in latency, network congestion, energy consumption, and cost.

We present the results of this experimentation and analysis, demonstrating the effectiveness of the Jaya algorithm in dynamically optimizing resource allocation in Fog computing. Through a comparative evaluation with traditional allocation policies, we showcase notable reductions in latency, energy consumption and improvements in data processing efficiency. The findings reveal the potential of the Jaya algorithm in enhancing the real-time analytics capabilities of Fog computing environments, thereby addressing critical challenges in IoT applications such as health monitoring and emergency response.
